Okay, so
let's go back a little bit to slides and
let's move into the next hot topic,
type definitions.
Because so far I mentioned that
a package can include constants,
a package can include variables,
it can use functions.
We have already seen those three,
and also getting to types.
And now it's time to talk
about type declarations.
So first, we're going to start with
the simplest types that you can make.
You can create new types based on other
types, or aliases to those types.
Let's see how that works.
To create a type alias,
you type the name you want equals,
and the object, the target of that alias,
or you can create a new type based on.
And the only difference here is if you
have equals or not, so be careful.
It changes everything, okay?
So we're going to see this in action.
For now, I will keep playing in this code,
but just for playing a little bit,
and then we'll create another
project to understand types better.
So we have a data folder here,
so I can use that data.
I'm put now some go files here.
So I'm going to create types.go.
That's the file name
needs to have that name.
No, file names are custom names,
so any name.
The only problem is that it
has to have package data.
And then, I'm going to define a type.
Let's start with an alias.
I would say integer equals to int.
So now, you can create
the variable x of type integer.
Is just an alias, it's just that.
Why do you want that?
It doesn't feel like interesting,
but sometimes you have some.
For example, when you have slices,
you can say array of strings and
or a slice of strings.
And say okay it's this.
And I know it still doesn't feel so
complicated, but then you can say Jason,
and Jason you say it's a map with strings
as key because they have strings.
And as a value, let's say for
now it's the json of a strings only.
So and then use json as a type,
it's an alias.
You are not changing
the nature of that type.
It's just an alias, okay?
But if you remove the equals,
it seems the same, but it's not the same.
It's creating a new type,
and why is that useful?
Typically is to create semantics.
For example, one typical example
is we create a distance type.
I say, okay, the distance is a float 32 or
64, it doesn't matter.
You can even express a semantic on that.
For example, it's a distance in miles or
kilometers, or meters and yards.
You define the union, right?
So now every time you use distance
as a type, you know what it is.
It's not just a float that you're
on doesn't have semantics, okay?
It has more information,
more semantic information is still afloat.
Yeah, it is.
So the nature is still afloat.
But now, you are adding more
semantics to that type.
And what is important now is that,
now when you are creating a variable,
let me create a function
here to test this.
I can create the variable d and if I say
something like this, so what's the type
of d it's complaining because I'm
not using d, but what's the type?
Is it distance?
No, it's going to be float.
But what if, I say something like this?
And because it's a type,
it has its own converter.
So now,
it's creating a distance with that value.
Okay, what's the distance and number?
And you understand better what's this,
what's the advantage of this
in two minutes, but for
now do you have any question on
creating your own types like this?
You create a new type based on other type.
No, okay.
You're waiting for
those two minutes, right?
Those are methods.
In fact, let's get rid of the slide and
do this directly.
So what's the point on this?
I can add methods to my type.
So for example, let's say it's in miles,
I could do this.
I can say, okay, let's create the function
with the name two kilometers.
Okay, but that's a function.
Yeah, I can receive a distance.
I will refactor this.
Disclaimer, I receive a distance in miles.
So let's call these miles and
then I need to return.
Do you know how to make the calculation?
No, no one, come on.
>> 6, 2.
>> 1 mile kilometers.
We can ask, of course,
ChatGPT to do this for us, right?
But yeah, we just need to.
>> Maybe it'll be right.
>> Maybe, yeah, you're right,
because it's our numbers.
So first of all,
I need to return something.
So I need to say what I'm going to return.
What will it be another distance?
What if I'm setting that this is in miles?
No, but I can add another.
I can create another type that
is distance in kilometers,
but it's also flow 64, and
then to return one of those I can convert,
This multiplied by distance like so.
We do have a problem.
What's the problem?
We have a type problem.
>> It should be miles.
>> It says it's miles.
Yeah, you're right.
It's miles, not distant because
that's the identifier goes first.
It seems like it's working.
Yeah, it's working.
Is that the method?
No, it's a function, okay?
It's a normal function.
It's a global function,
in fact, it cannot export this.
I need to use capital T,
if I wanna export it.
We know that, but it's a normal function.
Nothing fancy here.
What's going on?
Well, actually, I can change this.
Can you see this miles,
distance declaration?
I can take it from the arguments and
convert that into
a special argument that,
brace yourself for the syntax,
g oes between the func keyword and
the function name, okay?
It's not a return type.
We open parentheses here and
we add that there.
So what is this?
Is this a return type?
No, the return type is still this one.
Is this an argument?
No, the arguments are here.
It's a special argument, and
this is actually a method.
What is a method that now,
I can take my distance and
use the dot syntax to
convert that into kilometers?
Okay, well, what?
So this is my variable
distance of type distance.
Well, I added a method,
think about if it's a class,
like adding a method to the distance
class, but it's not the class.
So I'm creating a method and
this is how here you select In
which type you're injecting that method.
This is similar in
JavaScript to prototype,
when you're adding functions
to the prototype of a type.
In C-sharp, we do have something similar
as well, when you can inject methods.
Extension method, I think that's a name.
You can also do this on Swift,
on Objective-C.
So there are many languages
where you can do this,
you can add methods to other types.
So then, do we have two kilometers?
So now this is distance,
this is kilometers, so that's my variable.
Do I have two kilometres?
No, because that's a different type.
I could add two miles to go back.
So in that case, I integrate another
method two miles, that will parallely so
this right, so I need to put it
here because it's the division,
or the order is important here and
it's not kilometer.
I need to return distance, right?
And I don't wanna apply
this to the distance type.
I need to apply this to the other type,
and let's call that kilometers, not miles.
Does it make sense?
So here, you define to which type
you're going to inject something.
So you can create methods for
the type that you have just created.